feat(key-manager): add an how-to guide for AEAD Streaming for the Key… (#3643)
scaleway/docs-content: identity-and-access-management/key-manager/how-to/streaming-aead-tink.mdx

---
meta:

> title: How to use Tink AEAD Streaming with with Scaleway's Key Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to use Tink AEAD Streaming with Scaleway's Key Manager
```

description: Discover how to use Tink with AEAD Streaming and Scaleway's Key Manager in order to encrypt and decrypt large data streams.
content:

> h1: How to use Tink AEAD Streaming with with Scaleway's Key Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
h1: How to use Tink AEAD Streaming with Scaleway's Key Manager
```

> paragraph: Discover how to use Tink with AEAD Streaming and Scaleway's Key Manager in order to encrypt and decrypt large data streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paragraph: Discover how to use Tink with AEAD Streaming and Scaleway's Key Manager to encrypt and decrypt large data streams.
```

> tags: key sensitive-data tink aead streaming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: key-manager sensitive-data tink aead streaming
```

dates:
validation: 2024-08-28
posted: 2024-08-28
categories:
  - identity-and-access-management
---

> In this tutorial, you'll learn how to use Scaleway's Tink Key Manager extension to encrypt and decrypt large data streams using AEAD (authenticated encryption with associated data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to use Scaleway's Tink Key Manager extension to encrypt and decrypt large data streams using AEAD (authenticated encryption with associated data).
```

## First steps

To complete the actions presented below, you must :

> - Create a symmetric Key Manager Key for encryption. Take note of the ID of the key. You need it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a symmetric Key Manager key for encryption. Save the key ID somewhere safe, as you will need it later.
```

> - In your terminal, paste the following commands to export your environment variables. Make sure you add your **own variables**. You can also use a scaleway configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In your terminal, paste the following commands to export your environment variables. Make sure you add your **own variables**. You can also use a Scaleway configuration file.
```

  ```
  export SCW_ACCESS_KEY="<access-key>"
  export SCW_SECRET_KEY="<secret-key>"
  export SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID="<organization-id>"
  export SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID="<project-id>"
  export SCW_DEFAULT_REGION="<region>"
  export SCW_API_URL="<api-url>"
  export SCW_KMS_KEY_ID="<key-id>"
  ```

## Encrypt and decrypt large data streams using AEAD

1. Add the [Scaleway Tink provider for Go](https://github.com/scaleway/tink-go-scwkms/tree/main) and Tink to your go.mod:

```
> go get github.com/scaleway/tink-go-scwkms
> go get github.com/tink-crypto/tink-go/v2
```

> 2. Create a Go project and copy paste the following code :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Go project and copy and paste the following code :
```

    if err := ciphertextFile.Close(); err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    if err := plaintextFile.Close(); err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }

    // Print the content of the encrypted file.
    c, err := os.ReadFile(ciphertextPath)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    fmt.Println(string(c))

    // Decrypt the ciphertext file and write the output to the decrypted file.
    ciphertextFile, err = os.Open(ciphertextPath)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    decryptedPath := filepath.Join(dir, "decrypted")
    decryptedFile, err := os.Create(decryptedPath)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    r, err := primitive.NewDecryptingReader(ciphertextFile, associatedData)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    if _, err := io.Copy(decryptedFile, r); err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    if err := decryptedFile.Close(); err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    if err := ciphertextFile.Close(); err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }

    // Print the content of the decrypted file.
    b, err := os.ReadFile(decryptedPath)
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    fmt.Println(string(b))
}
```

> **Caution: Associated data is authenticated but NOT encrypted.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Message type="important">
  Associated data is authenticated but **not** encrypted.
</Message>
```

> In this tutorial, we propose using the Key Manager's remote KEK to protect the DEK and stream AEAD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we propose using the Key Manager's remote KEK to protect the DEK and stream AEAD. However, it is also possible to protect the Data Encryption Key with another key that is not a remote key.
```

However, it is also possible to protect the Data Encryption Key with another key that is not a remote key.

> 3. Run your code by using the following command :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run your code by using the following command:
```
